Question: Please use the space below to provide details about the change in progression through secondary/high school that you indicated above. (250 words or fewer)
Answer: I opted to take a gap year following high school to give my body time to heal from my illness and to focus on jazz studies. My Senior year of high school I was unsure of whether to pursue saxophone as a career. As much as I wanted to, I could not ignore the reality — I had lost significant practice time to my medical symptoms and hospital visits. I was severely conflicted. On the one hand, it felt naive to attend music school without knowing the challenges of relentless jazz practice. On the other, I was not ready to abandon the art form which had given my life such substance and meaning on a whim. From the gap year, I gained time to reflect, and came to a firm decision on where jazz should be rooted in my life - as a meaningful outlet of communication and expression but not at the center of academic pursuits.

Question: List the titles of the books, essays, poetry, short stories or plays you read outside of academic courses that you enjoyed most during secondary/high school. (75 words or fewer)
Answer: Goethe’s Faust; The Search for Modern China; Zen in the art of archery;Notes from the Underground; Gödel; Escher, Bach: an Eternal Golden Braid; The Undiscovered Self; Calculus Made Easy; Constructive Living;  Morita Therapy and The true Nature of Anxiety-Based Disorders; Understanding Human Nature; Prelude to Revolution The Petrograd Bolsheviks and the July 1917 Uprising; Killing Hope; Civil Disobedience; Anthology of Classical Myth; Reflections on the Revolution in France; Ham on Rye. 

Question: We’re interested in learning about some of the ways that you explore your interests. List some resources and outlets that you enjoy, including but not limited to websites, publications, journals, podcasts, social media accounts, lectures, museums, movies, music, or other content with which you regularly engage. (125 words or fewer)
Answer: 
Movies: El Topo, Chungking Express, Solaris (1972), Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore, Akira, House (1977), Blue Velvet, 12 Angry Men, Death of Yugoslavia, Purple Noon, Clue, The Room, Shrek 2, Citizen Kane, Vertigo, Minions Rise of Gru, 
Web: Phil Schaap Archives
Youtube: Blank on Blank, 3Blue1Brown, Agadmator’s Chess Channel, Epic HistoryTV, Exploring History, Numberphile, Defunctland
Music: Les Gens Qui Sentent Bon C'est Cool, Hunk of Heaven, Untitled Original 11386, Party in the USA, Helpless When You’re Gone, Julie With, 22 (Taylor Swift), Winter is Gone, Miroirs, Timber (Ke$ha), Girl of My Dreams (James Clarke), Early Autumn (Sun Ra), These Days (Foo Fighters), Fergalicious
Lectures: How Mozart Became a Bad Composer, In Defense of Jung: Soul and Psyche in the 21st Century. 

Question: A hallmark of the Columbia experience is being able to learn and thrive in an equitable and inclusive community with a wide range of perspectives. Tell us about an aspect of your own perspective, viewpoint or lived experience that is important to you, and describe how it has shaped the way you would learn from and contribute to Columbia’s diverse and collaborative community. (200 words or fewer)
Answer: Following the academic league championship, my teammates and I chatted with the opposing players whom we lost to from a wealthy neighboring district. Eventually, we fell into conversation about East Ramapo. The chatter was civil, until one of the opposing team members said, “you guys played well considering how terrible East Ramapo is.”
It was true, the district had very real flaws – slashed budgets, low graduation rate, and a school board which did not reflect the demographics of the students it was meant to represent. Still, when he judged us as handicapped, tensions flared, and the conversation ended. We were used to defending the offensive, and somewhat racist assumptions of gang activity and violence in our schools, but his comment had struck a different nerve. In his presumably good natured attempt to relate to us, he had instead insulted our abilities, the teacher who ran our program, and the effort we had each put into practicing for the competition. At Columbia I would attempt to eagerly learn from others' unique viewpoints, while remaining vigilant of the misguided actions that often result from incomplete cultural understanding.

Question: Why are you interested in attending Columbia University? We encourage you to consider the aspect(s) that you find unique and compelling about Columbia. (200 words or fewer)
Answer: When I enrolled in the early admissions honors programs at SUNY Rockland, I looked forward to engaging discussions, thought-provoking assignments, and motivated peers. Instead, I was met with textbooks, large lecture halls, canned homeworks, and apathetic peers. Each course seemed designed only to fulfill a requirement. Even as I willed myself to engage, the “just get it done” attitude was pervasive. I began to feel that any relationship with the material would only occur coincidentally, if at all. 
In search of something different, I was drawn to Columbia—a school that flips this structure on its head. The Core was the opposite of what I had known. Large lecture halls were replaced with small discussion-based seminars, textbooks with primary sources. Most importantly to me, however, it was universal. The Core asks each and every student to form a relationship with some of the most difficult and important ideas in Western literature and Philosophy.  Students are actually encouraged to bond with each other through their readings. It was the antithesis of the alienation I had experienced. Sharing the experience of intellectual development is what excites me about Columbia. 

Question: For applicants to Columbia College, please tell us what from your current and past experiences (either academic or personal) attracts you specifically to the areas of study that you previously noted in the application. 
(200 words or fewer)
Answer: For most of my life, I’ve learned history from textbooks. Each chapter neatly summarized an era with terms and questions like, “what caused—” and “who led—”. Eventually, history appeared a list of people and facts — some agreed-upon retelling of time.
It wasn’t until Covid that this felt absurd. I became aware that I was living through an event that would appear in textbooks. And yet, as a witness, I could hardly form a narrative. News stations, medical reports, and social media covered the pandemic endlessly. I wondered what students would read in a hundred years. Could a blurb convey the nuances of what we witnessed?
I looked at my book. Revolutionary war – one chapter. Song dynasty – one chapter. I realized I knew nothing about history, and somehow, it was the most exciting moment of my life. I became fascinated with how people living through these events described them. 
I learned later this was historiography, and have been enamored since. My interest attracted me to Columbia's great books program, which takes students through history not narrated retroactively, but as experienced. Alongside Columbia’s unparalleled faculty and archives, I hope to pursue historiography research, and uncover how narratives came to be.

Question: In Columbia’s admissions process, we value who you are as a unique individual, distinct from your goals and achievements. In the last words of this writing supplement, we would like you to reflect on a source of happiness. Help us get to know you further by describing the first thing that comes to mind when you consider what simply brings you joy. (35 words or fewer)
Answer: None, if I had the chance to relive my life, I'd totally go for it.



